# ch4_metaAnalysis_public
Repository for Cooley et al. (2025), including all statistical analyses.

Title: A global 'climate opportunity benefit' of forest regeneration: meta-analysis shows warming from soil CH4 and N2O is small relative to agriculture

Summary: Global assessments of ecosystem regeneration as a climate mitigation strategy have traditionally focused on CO2, despite the acknowledgement that methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) are also important greenhouse gases (GHGs). We conducted a meta-analysis of studies that measured soil CH4 and N2O fluxes in unmanaged regenerating forested and savanna ecosystems, with a focus on understanding biome-specific differences in these GHG fluxes compared to a counterfactual of agricultural land use. We expected most regenerating ecosystems to act as small CH4 sinks and relatively larger N2O sources, with a net warming combined CH4-N2O effect. Three of the five forested biomes we studied followed this pattern: subtropical/tropical forest, subtropical/tropical savanna and temperate conifer forest (0.60 ± 0.30, 0.15 ± 0.06, and 0.83 ± 0.24 Mg CO2e ha–1 yr–1, respectively). Results suggest that even after 100 years of regeneration, the radiative cooling of the climate from CO2 sequestration in aboveground biomass exceeds the radiative warming driven by the net CH4-N2O effect among all ecosystems on average globally. We also found that the “climate opportunity benefit” of ecosystem regeneration—the difference of the net CH4-N2O effects of agriculture vs. regeneration—yields a net cooling effect for all biomes. However, because the CH4-N2O effect diminishes the cooling effect of ecosystem regeneration, our results underscore that it is unsound to use ecosystem regeneration as a justification for continuing fossil fuel emissions.
